welcome to slash forward in this video
we're going to examine the french home
invasion horror movie called
them and try to see if we can figure the
odds of surviving such an ordeal
don't forget to hit the like button if
you have an appreciation for productive
playtime to start i'll unpack the
storyline to see what we can learn
let's get to it we open in romania in
a woman is heading home after picking
her wayward daughter up from the club
daddy's on the phone so you know she's
in trouble but sanda
clearly needs dr phil as she declines to
take the call with no remorse
whatsoever of course when they suddenly
veer off the road into a poll she
mommies up
real quick mother goes out to see if she
has a dude stuck in her grill
and since not they attempt to leave but
something strange
seems to be wrong with the engine so she
takes a look while encouraging santa to
try to get it started however she
eventually stops responding to her
daughter's call because she's gone
sandy goes to investigate despite
getting no callbacks from mamo
mama mama mama
although she does eventually from a
strange man
she tries to find protection inside the
van but whoever's out there has the key
fob and plays a little door lock game
with her she attempts to call the police
but is put on hold as the rain begins to
come down there are a variety of playful
distractions presented to her from
outside the vehicle
only to learn that at least one person
was inside the van with her the whole
time
and he kills her we then transition to a
school in bucharest at the end of the
day where we find clementine
a new teacher adjusting to the new
environment after putting in a full and
enriching day of tutelage she heads home
where she and her boo plan a quiet night
with a bottle of wine
but an ominous tone is struck as we see
her drive past the scene of the prior
night's
brutal double homie before turning off
onto the road leading to her secluded
cottage
which seems cozy i guess she heads back
toward the greenhouse where they plan to
set up their grow operation
and finds lucas wrapping up for the day
they playfully head back into the main
house where they race to the only
functioning bathroom putting lucas at
risk of evacuating into his pants
they then enjoy the dinner lucas mate
which sucks and is
thoroughly unenjoyable and cap off the
evening with some good old-fashioned
entertaining broadcast television it's
about enough to put them to sleep
except they get their nightly barking
visit from a local stray dog which can
only be silenced by lucas venturing out
to give it a little nibble
later with the rain gently tapping at
their window clem heads downstairs for
some postcoital schoolwork growing sad
that her students seem to not be
learning anything she welcomes the
distraction of the phone but when she
answers there's nothing but a strange
noise from the other end
she then redirects to a little self-care
soaking in the tub before donning her
virginal white sleepwear to finally turn
in a couple of hours later she wakes up
to the sound of music pounding somewhere
off in the distance
she wakes up lucas but the noise has
subsided regardless she insists they go
downstairs to see what it was
when they look out it's noted that her
car seems to be in a different location
than it was before
so lucas emerges from the house and
requests that anyone out there identify
themselves
or else when the headlights come on he
insists clem stays still
just in case it's a t-rex but whoever it
is revs the engine at him playfully
before backing down the road
inside clem calls the police to report
the theft and knows that they had to
have been
inside the house in order to get the
keys they'd try to put this out of their
minds and relax with a couple of drags
but then the power goes out
well seems like we just need to go flip
the main switch real quick but when
flipping switches does nothing
lucas realizes he actually has no idea
what he's doing
then clem notices a flickering light
from upstairs they duck down to avoid
being cast in its glare
and when it seems safe to do so lucas
takes a peek outside they're then
confronted head on by a reverse peeping
tom
who hopefully closes all the shutters
for them they head upstairs for a better
view but
can't really see much that's all good
because their focus has soon shifted to
a series of loud banging noises
emanating from downstairs
they hide near the bed and listen as the
stray dog is silenced outside
then everything turns back on at once
indicating they're inside the house
naturally lucas decides to go downstairs
to check it out
after closing clem into the room he
heads down but his detection abilities
are somewhat limited by the blaring
television
he turns it off so he can hear better
and also to give away his position
he then ventures out sometimes
cautiously sometimes loudly with hook in
hand but the intruders remain one step
ahead of him at all times
he makes a mistake of lingering in an
open void vulnerable from all directions
and is hit by a swinging door that
inserts some glass into his body
as he stumbles back up to the room clem
has a battle with a doorknob which she
loses
and then nearly gets her eye put out
lucas makes it back and they manage to
eventually get the door open
then as the intruders bang around in the
hall he insists that clem pulls the
foreign body from his leg
when the intruders try to get into the
bedroom they head further in toward the
bathroom for safety here clem clambers
into the attic to try
to find an exit but it's mostly just old
dusty christmas decorations
lucas calls out to her but the familiar
ratcheting noise going off nearby
causes her to pause and quietly duck
back among the detritus this is followed
by footfalls and eventually feet she
holds position until he begins to
aggressively rearrange her stuff
causing her to take off like a
jackrabbit into the plastic sheeting
portion of the upper house
while functional for a remodel i bet
they didn't realize the aesthetic would
also be so atmospheric for an eventual
home invasion
she steers clear of any noises she hears
and nearly avoids getting her face
pushed in with a 2x4
then we get our first full view of an
intruder who's hung up on making his
creepy noises not expecting clem to act
immediately
dumping him over the railing onto his
big dumb head as he works to shake off
the concussion his partner begins
climbing the scaffolding to where she at
so she rushes back the other way toward
lucas hoping the coast is clear with
their assailants behind them
they successfully duck away and circle
back so they can make it out the front
door and lock it from the outside
this buys them some time as they hobble
off into the woods but lucas has a tough
time on the rough terrain and they are
kept in a heightened state by the
constant garbled bird noise as they keep
popping off behind them
they eventually come upon a fence that
clems scales easily
lucas can't make it and he's panting and
moaning like a muskox in heat which is
likely attracting
unwanted attention possibly from a horny
muskox so he convinces her to go on
without him while he hides in the brush
clem makes it a good distance but the
flashlights are still right behind her
she tries to hide but they're zipping
around from all directions making their
cute little noises
when she takes to jogging again she soon
finds her trusty automobile
and approaches slowly she chooses to
commit fully to this plan but is unable
to locate the keys before the gentleman
arrives
then we circle back to lucas trying to
find a way past the fence
apparently all he needed was to hear
clem scream because when he runs off in
that direction he's out in the open
woods now he gets there just in time to
see the tail lights disappear but then
finds the car stopped a short distance
further up the road he grabs a branch of
sufficient size and heft and approaches
slowly
finding the car empty but with a hooded
figure nearby he picks his moment and
pounces bludgeoning him until hearing
the satisfying crunch of his skull
giving way
he's shocked however to roll him over
and discover he's just a young mad lad
so he leaves him without insuring the
kill and instead goes off in the
direction of clem's intermittent
screaming this leads him to a sewer and
as the noise becomes more consistent he
has an easier time finding his way deep
into the catacombs
the tunnels eventually lead him to a
chamber where a couple of straight-up
kids are experimenting with torture
one delighting in cleanse despair and
the other suggesting he stops and she
can't breathe
lucas decides to step in and help him
understand physical trauma then they're
ushered away by the seemingly innocent
one to a hiding place away from the
incoming lights
he guides them around and then up a
ladder where he takes the chance to
start tap dancing on lucas's knuckles
eventually knocking him to the floor
below clem can only share a brief
farewell glance before he's dragged off
by the heathens alone now clem ventures
deep into a narrow cavern which she
tries to use to her advantage
however when the boy feigns innocent
again despite what she just witnessed
she hesitates long enough for him to get
out of the way of her incoming boulder
she continues running and then crawling
toward a light that when it comes into
full resolution reveals itself to be a
gated storm drain exit under a highway
as the traffic drives by oblivious to
her plight she disappears
in the warm light of morning we see the
kids exit the woods and hop on the bus
another successful night of productive
play now behind them
after the screen goes black we get some
true story closure as screen text
reveals the bodies of clem and lucas
were found
five days later the murderers were
arrested shortly thereafter with the
group's age ranging from 10 to 15
the youngest of them lamenting how
stridently the couple resisted playing
with them
with that now established let's get to
the question of whether you could
survive this ordeal to start
if this is actually based on a true
story the ordeal the victims had to go
through must have been truly terrible
pretty much everything i could find
about this film
indicates it's more based on local
french folklore as no specific cases are
mentioned anywhere regardless my
evaluation here is primarily based on
how they presented things in the movie
in order to build tension and develop
atmosphere the events that transpired
had to unfold slowly over time and over
a large and varied terrain for the sake
of variety and
escalating doom in order to ensure a
proper ratio of down time to scare time
they also had to essentially treat the
intruders almost like they were
supernatural entities
inherently scary by virtue of their mere
presence in areas where they don't
belong
realistically this is more of a sit in
the room back to back while holding
knives situation
rather than a venture out quietly into
large open rooms and look around
situation it stands to reason that if
lucas or clem had been more aggressive
or
physical people the outcome of the story
may have been very different
ultimately there are two limiting
factors here one is the fact that we
don't really have a good idea of how
many intruders there are
if they all exited the woods then four
if the two who were injured or killed
never recovered and made it back with
the group then six but there's also the
possibility that there were even more
who exited different areas of the wooded
lot to go to their respective homes in
different parts of town
we really can't be sure the second
factor is that they seem to have bad
intentions but they escalate their
violence slowly
scaring their victims and then
experimenting with pain and torture
along the way
while we know from hindsight that they
kill their victims it may not be
immediately obvious when you're in that
situation
most of the early injuries or close
calls could even come across as
accidental
if you don't understand the stakes to be
fatal you may hesitate to take
commensurate action
especially if you recognize your
assailant as a child so what does this
mean about survival
well i'd say i'd probably have to put
this at a coin flip 50 50.
the reality is that while most of us are
action heroes in our minds we would
likely find violence in real life
abhorrence the chance that most average
people would hesitate resulting in
negative outcomes
as depicted in the film is pretty good
if however you do count yourself among
the rank of those who would refuse to go
down without doing
everything you could to survive then it
really just becomes a matter of deciding
how many kids you think you could beat
up at one time
after all if we're looking at how to
beat them this is a simple home invasion
scenario perpetrated by children
they have no special skills equipment or
powers defeating them would take the
same technique as defeating
any other person only easier because
they're weak so
if you're able to look past their
deceptions and the natural instinct to
protect and nurture younglings you could
probably do pretty well
if you're an adult of moderate size
before we go i'd like to give a huge
thanks to my donors memorialized in the
hall of head shots
as an fyi i have a website set up where
you can support the channel through
donations or
merch any donation unlocks uncensored
movie reviews of life force and
under the skin with others to be added
over time and if you enjoyed the video
i'd love for you to become part of the
channel by subscribing
thanks for watching